_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Tianruo Rose Xu - Academic Homepage"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

## About Me

I am an undergraduate student at Cornell University, College of Engineering, pursuing a B.S. in Computer Science with a minor in Mathematics (expected graduation: May 2027). I am currently working as an undergraduate researcher in the Natural Language Processing Group at Cornell's Computer Science Department, supervised by Professor Tanya Goyal.

## Research Interests

My research focuses on:
- **Natural Language Processing**: Analyzing and improving reasoning-based Large Language Models
- **LLM Evaluation**: Meta-evaluation of automatic benchmarks and evaluators
- **Multimodal Learning**: Integrating vision and language for medical applications
- **Machine Learning**: Multi-task learning frameworks and uncertainty quantification

## Education

**Cornell University, College of Engineering**  
Aug 2024 – May 2027 (expected)  
B.S. in Computer Science, Minor: Mathematics

**Relevant Coursework**: Data structures, algorithms, operating systems, computer systems, machine learning, natural language processing, quantum computing, probability and statistics, multivariable calculus, linear algebra, differential equations, logic, cognitive science, linguistics, language and thought.

## Awards and Honors

- Hunter R. Rawlings III Cornell Presidential Research Scholar Award
- Clare Booth Luce (CBL) Undergraduate Research Award
- Bowers Undergraduate Research Experience (BURE) scholarship program ($7,000 stipend)
- Platinum division, Full Score in USA Computing Olympiad (USACO) 2023 January Gold Contest
- USA Mathematical Olympiad Qualifier (USAMO)

## Contact

- **Email**: tx88@cornell.edu
- **Mobile**: +1 607 262 1199
- **Location**: Ithaca, NY, USA

Commit message:

Update personal information: remove academic homepage from title, update GitHub/LinkedIn links, improve About Me section, update footer

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Tianruo Rose Xu"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

## About Me

I am an undergraduate student at Cornell University, College of Engineering, pursuing a B.S. in Computer Science with a minor in Mathematics. I am currently working as an undergraduate researcher in the Natural Language Processing Group at Cornell's Computer Science Department, and I am honored to be supervised by [Professor Tanya Goyal](https://tagoyal.github.io/).

I am a [Hunter R. Rawlings III Cornell Presidential Research Scholar](https://scl.cornell.edu/get-involved/cornell-commitment/rawlings-cornell-presidential-research-scholars), which recognizes exceptional undergraduate researchers at Cornell.

## Research Interests

My research focuses on:
- **Natural Language Processing**: Analyzing and improving reasoning-based Large Language Models
- **LLM Evaluation**: Meta-evaluation of automatic benchmarks and evaluators
- **Multimodal Learning**: Integrating vision and language for medical applications
- **Machine Learning**: Multi-task learning frameworks and uncertainty quantification

## Education

**Cornell University, College of Engineering**  
Aug 2024 – May 2027 (expected)  
B.S. in Computer Science, Minor: Mathematics

**Relevant Coursework**: Data structures, algorithms, operating systems, computer systems, machine learning, natural language processing, quantum computing, probability and statistics, multivariable calculus, linear algebra, differential equations, logic, cognitive science, linguistics, language and thought.

## Awards and Honors

- Hunter R. Rawlings III Cornell Presidential Research Scholar Award
- Clare Booth Luce (CBL) Undergraduate Research Award
- Bowers Undergraduate Research Experience (BURE) scholarship program ($7,000 stipend)
- Platinum division, Full Score in USA Computing Olympiad (USACO) 2023 January Gold Contest
- USA Mathematical Olympiad Qualifier (USAMO)

## Contact

- **Email**: tx88@cornell.edu
- **Mobile**: +1 607 262 1199
- **Location**: Ithaca, NY, USA
