_publications/2025-07-21-nfcmtl-miccai.md, before:

---
title: "NFCMTL: Auto NailFold Capillaroscopy through a Multi-Task Learning Model"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2025-07-21-nfcmtl-miccai
excerpt: 'Published in MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE. Runner-up Best Paper Award.'
date: 2025-07-21
venue: 'MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE'
paperurl: 
citation: 'Yingke Ding, Jiankai Tang, Wanying Mo, Tianruo Rose Xu, Yuanchun Shi, Yuntao Wang. NFCMTL: Auto NailFold Capillaroscopy through a Multi-Task Learning Model. MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE, July 21, 2025.'
award: 'Runner-up Best Paper, MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE'
share: false
hide_auto_published: true
---

Proposed the first multi-task learning framework for nailfold capillaroscopy, integrating segmentation, classification, and keypoint detection into a unified model. Leveraging a Multiscale Vision Transformer (MViT) backbone with uncertainty-weighted task heads, NFCMTL achieves sub-pixel accuracy in capillary parameter estimation and outperforms prior single-task baselines.

Commit message:

Update NFCMTL publication: add OpenReview link, full abstract, and code link

_publications/2025-07-21-nfcmtl-miccai.md, after:

---
title: "NFCMTL: Auto NailFold Capillaroscopy through a Multi-Task Learning Model"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2025-07-21-nfcmtl-miccai
excerpt: 'Published in MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE. Runner-up Best Paper Award.'
date: 2025-07-21
venue: 'MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE'
paperurl: 'https://openreview.net/forum?id=u0m4T1aUo1#discussion'
codeurl: 'https://github.com/thuhci/NFCMTL'
citation: 'Yingke Ding, Jiankai Tang, Wanying Mo, Tianruo Rose Xu, Yuanchun Shi, Yuntao Wang. NFCMTL: Auto NailFold Capillaroscopy through a Multi-Task Learning Model. MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE, July 21, 2025.'
award: 'Runner-up Best Paper, MICCAI 2025 Workshop MSB EMERGE'
share: false
hide_auto_published: true
show_paper_link: true
---

## Abstract

Nailfold capillaroscopy is a non-invasive technique for assessing microvascular health by visualizing capillaries in the nailfold, playing a key role in diagnosing vascular and autoimmune diseases. We propose a novel machine learning approach for nailfold analysis, introducing an advanced multi-task learning model that jointly performs capillary segmentation, classification, and keypoint detection within a unified architecture. Using a large public dataset with reorganized keypoint annotations, our approach improves precision and efficiency in feature detection while simplifying the conventional multi-stage pipeline. By leveraging multi-task optimization, the model achieves state-of-the-art performance comparable to existing methods. This work advances nailfold imaging by providing an accurate, streamlined solution for automated, non-invasive microvascular diagnostics. Code is available at [https://github.com/thuhci/NFCMTL](https://github.com/thuhci/NFCMTL).
