_publications/2025-11-01-progress-illusion-emnlp.md, before:

---
title: "The Progress Illusion: Revisiting Meta-Evaluation Standards of LLM Evaluators"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-11-01-progress-illusion-emnlp
excerpt: 'Published in Findings of EMNLP 2025.'
date: 2025-11-01
venue: 'Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025'
paperurl: 'https://aclanthology.org/2025.findings-emnlp.1036/'
posterurl: 
citation: 'Tianruo Rose Xu, Vedant Gaur, Liu Leqi, Tanya Goyal. The Progress Illusion: Revisiting Meta-Evaluation Standards of LLM Evaluators. Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025, Suzhou, China, November 2025.'
share: false
hide_auto_published: true
---

## Abstract

LLM judges have gained popularity as an inexpensive and performant substitute for human evaluation. However, we observe that the meta-evaluation setting in which the reliability of these LLM evaluators is established is substantially different from their use in model development. To address this, we revisit meta-evaluations of LLM evaluators under a setting that more closely aligns with practice by examining evaluators' ability to distinguish test system pairs that are closer in capability. Our fine-grained approach shows that all LLM evaluator's correlations with human judgments are concerningly low when the models perform similarly, showcasing a key limitation of current norms. Equipped with this better methodology, we next analyze the impact that the choice of the reference model makes to LLM-as-a-judge evaluator performance. We show that single-reference evaluators only perform well at ranking test systems that fall within particular capability ranges, even if the standard meta-evaluation reports high overall correlation. Taken together, our analysis shows critical issues with current LLM meta-evaluation and recommend avenues for improvement.

Published in Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 (Suzhou, China, November 2025).

Commit message:

Update publications: add abstract for AAAI, add View Full Text link for EMNLP, change Published to Presented, remove Share on from all publications

_publications/2025-11-01-progress-illusion-emnlp.md, after:

---
title: "The Progress Illusion: Revisiting Meta-Evaluation Standards of LLM Evaluators"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-11-01-progress-illusion-emnlp
excerpt: 'Published in Findings of EMNLP 2025.'
date: 2025-11-01
venue: 'Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025'
paperurl: 'https://aclanthology.org/2025.findings-emnlp.1036/'
posterurl: 
citation: 'Tianruo Rose Xu, Vedant Gaur, Liu Leqi, Tanya Goyal. The Progress Illusion: Revisiting Meta-Evaluation Standards of LLM Evaluators. Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025, Suzhou, China, November 2025.'
share: false
hide_auto_published: true
show_paper_link: true
---

## Abstract

LLM judges have gained popularity as an inexpensive and performant substitute for human evaluation. However, we observe that the meta-evaluation setting in which the reliability of these LLM evaluators is established is substantially different from their use in model development. To address this, we revisit meta-evaluations of LLM evaluators under a setting that more closely aligns with practice by examining evaluators' ability to distinguish test system pairs that are closer in capability. Our fine-grained approach shows that all LLM evaluator's correlations with human judgments are concerningly low when the models perform similarly, showcasing a key limitation of current norms. Equipped with this better methodology, we next analyze the impact that the choice of the reference model makes to LLM-as-a-judge evaluator performance. We show that single-reference evaluators only perform well at ranking test systems that fall within particular capability ranges, even if the standard meta-evaluation reports high overall correlation. Taken together, our analysis shows critical issues with current LLM meta-evaluation and recommend avenues for improvement.

Presented at Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 (Suzhou, China, November 2025).
